  ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE (EA) AND
  DATABASE PROGRAMMING
  LECTURE 4




Azadeh Sarkheyli
(azadeh.sarkheyli@hh.se)
             Architecture Methods and Frameworks

CONTENTS:    Description Languages
ARCHITECTURE METHODS AND FRAMEWORKS




   The Zachman Framework

   The Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF)
ARCHITECTURE
METHODS AND
FRAMEWORKS

The Zachman Framework
ARCHITECTURE
METHODS AND
FRAMEWORKS

The Open Group Architecture
Framework
ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE AND OTHER GOVERNANCE INSTRUMENTS


     Discussion

     According to the below papers (links) describe what are the
     differences between TOGAF and Zachman?
     ❖ https://www.bcs.org/articles-opinion-and-research/a-comparison-
        of-the-top-four-enterprise-architecture-frameworks/
     ❖ https://www.acte.in/togaf-vs-zachman-article
     ❖ https://www.bmc.com/blogs/togaf-vs-zachman/
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES



 Integrated DEFinition Methods (IDEF)

 The Business Process Modelling Notation (BPMN)

 The Unified Modeling Language (UML)
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : IDEF


❑ IDEF is the name of a family of languages used to perform enterprise modelling and analysis (see
  http://www.idef.com/)
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : IDEF



IDEF0, IDEF3, and IDEF1X (‘the core’) are the most commonly used. Their scope covers:

❖ Functional modelling, IDEF0: The idea behind IDEF0 is to model the elements controlling the execution of a function, the
   actors performing the function, the objects or data consumed and produced by the function, and the relationships between
   business functions (shared resources and dependencies).

❖ Process modelling, IDEF3: IDEF3 captures the workflow of a business process via process flow diagrams. These show the
   task sequence for processes performed by the organisation, the decision logic, describe different scenarios for performing
   the same business functions, and enable the analysis and improvement of the workflow.

❖ Data modelling, IDEF1X: IDEF1X is used to create logical data models and physical data models by the means of logical
   model diagrams, multiple IDEF1X logical subject area diagrams, and multiple physical diagrams.
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : IDEF


❑ There are five elements to the IDEF0 functional model (see Fig. 2.10): the activity (or process) is
  represented by boxes, inputs, outputs, constraints, or controls on the activities, and mechanisms
  that carry out the activity.
 DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : IDEF

The IDEF3 Process Description Capture Method provides a mechanism for collecting and
documenting processes. There are two IDEF3 description modes:

  ➢ Process flow diagrams

  ➢ Object state transition network diagrams




  The IDEF3 term for elements represented by boxes is a Unit Of Behaviour (UOB). The arrows (links) tie the
  boxes (activities) together and define the logical flows. The smaller boxes define junctions that provide a
  mechanism for introducing logic to the flows.
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : IDEF


❑ Process flow diagrams:

A process flow description captures knowledge of
‘how things work’ in an organization, e.g., the
description of what happens to a part as it flows
through a sequence of manufacturing processes.




                                                    https://www.idef.com/idef3-process-description-capture-method/
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : IDEF



❑ Object state transition network diagrams

The object state transition network description
summarizes the allowable transitions an object
may undergo throughout a particular process.




                                                  https://www.idef.com/idef3-process-description-capture-method/
 DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : IDEF

 The IDEF family provides support for the modelling of several architectural views. However, there
   are no communication mechanisms between models. The fact that they are isolated hinders the
   visualisation of all models as interrelated elements of an architectural system. This also means
   that a switch between views is not possible.

 IDEF is widely used in the industry. This indicates that it satisfies the needs of the users within
   acceptable limits.

 The IDEF family is subject to a continuous process of development and improvement. Still,
   IDEF0, IDEF1X, and IDEF3 are rather stable and rigid languages, and IDEF0 and IDEF1X have
   been published as standards of the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
 DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : BPMN

 The Business Process Modelling Notation (BPMN) was developed by the Business Process
  Management Initiative (BPMI), which has since merged with the Object Management Group.

 The BPMN standard (Object Management Group 2013) specifies a graphical notation that serves
  as a common basis for a variety of business process modelling and execution languages.

 As the name already indicates, BPMN is restricted to process modelling; applications or
  infrastructure are not covered by the language.

 The main purpose of BPMN is to provide a uniform notation for modelling business processes in
  terms of activities and their relationships (Fig. 2.11).
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : BPMN
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : UML


 The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is currently the most important industry-standard language for
  specifying, visualising, constructing and documenting the artefacts of software systems.

 The language’s development is managed by the Object Management Group (OMG).

 UML is intended to be used by system designers. Consequently, UML models are only clear to those
  who have a sound background in computer science, in particular in object orientation.

 UML models should be sufficiently understandable for illustrative and explanatory purposes to business
  engineers and organization specialists. Although UML was originally developed for the design of object-
  oriented software, its use has expanded to other areas, including architecture modelling.
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES : UML

 UML is a disturbingly rich combination of 13 sublanguages each having its own (sub)scope of the
  complete UML scope, and each with its own diagram to model a specific aspect of a (software) system.
  The 13 diagrams can be grouped in three categories:

   ➢ Structure: package diagrams, class diagrams, object diagrams, composite structure diagrams;

   ➢ Behaviour: use case diagrams, state diagrams, sequence diagrams, timing diagrams, communication diagrams,
      activity diagrams, interaction overview diagrams;

   ➢ Implementation: component diagrams, deployment diagrams.
DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES

Suitability for Enterprise Architecture

In the previous sections, we have given an overview of several languages for modelling in the area of organizations,
business processes, applications and technology. It is clear that none of these has succeeded in becoming ‘the
language’ that can cover all domains. In general, there are a number of aspects on which almost all of these languages
score low:

   ❑ The relations between domains (views) is poorly defined, and the models created in different views are not further
       integrated.

   ❑ Most languages have a weak formal basis and lack a clearly defined semantics.

   ❑ Most languages miss the overall architectural vision and are confined to either the business or the application and
       technology subdomains.
ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE AND OTHER GOVERNANCE INSTRUMENTS


     Discussion
     According to the below paper describe what are the
     differences between BPMN, UML, and IDEF?

     ❖ Entringer, T. C., Ferreira, A. D. S., & Nascimento, D. C. D. O.
        (2021). Comparative analysis of the main business process
        modeling methods: a bibliometric study. Gestão & Produção,
        28.
REFERENCES



  Lankhorst, M. (2017). Enterprise architecture at work (ISBN 978-3-662-53933-
    0). Berlin: Springer.
  Entringer, T. C., Ferreira, A. D. S., & Nascimento, D. C. D. O. (2021). Comparative
    analysis of the main business process modeling methods: a bibliometric study.
    Gestão & Produção, 28.
