  ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE (EA) AND
  DATABASE PROGRAMMING
  LECTURE 5




Azadeh Sarkheyli
(azadeh.sarkheyli@hh.se)
             Getting to Grips with Architectural Complexity

CONTENTS:    Describing Enterprise Architectures
             Pictures, Models, and Semantics
GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY



 Companies have long recognized the need for an integrated architectural approach and have
  developed their own architecture practice. However, they still experience a lack of support in the
  design, communication, realization, and management of architectures.
GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY

   Design: When designing architectures, architects should use a common, well-defined vocabulary to avoid
    misunderstandings and promote clear designs. Such a vocabulary must not just focus on a single architecture domain
    but should allow for the integration of different types of architectures related to different domains. Next to a common
    language, architects should be supported in their design activities by providing methodical support, general and
    organization specific guidelines, best practices, drawing standards, and other means that promote the quality of the
    architectures. Furthermore, to facilitate the design process, which is iterative and requires changes and updates to
    architectures, support for tracking architectural decisions and changes is desirable.

   Communication: Architectures are shared with various stakeholders within and outside the organization. To facilitate
    the communication about architectures, it should be possible to visualize precisely the relevant aspects for a particular
    group of stakeholders. Especially important in this respect is to bring about a successful communication on relations
    among different domains described by different architectures (e.g., processes vs. applications), since this will often
    involve multiple groups of stakeholders. Clear communication is also very important in the case of outsourcing of parts
    of the implementation of an architecture to external organizations.
GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY

 Realization: To facilitate the realization of architectures and to provide feedback from this
  realization to the original architectures, links should be established with design activities on a more
  detailed level, e.g., business process design, information modelling, or software development.
  Companies use different concepts and tools for these activities, and relations with these should be
  defined. Furthermore, integration with existing design tools in these domains should be provided.

 Change: An architecture often covers a large part of an organization and may be related to several
  other architectures. Therefore, changes to an architecture may have a profound impact. Assessing
  the consequences of such changes beforehand and carefully planning the evolution of
  architectures are therefore very important. Until now, support for this has been virtually non-
  existent.
GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY

 Compositionality

In current practice, enterprise architectures often comprise many heterogeneous models and other
descriptions, with ill-defined or completely lacking relations, inconsistencies, and a general lack of
coherence and vision.

The main driver behind most of the needs identified above is the complexity of architectures, their
relations, and their use. Many different architectures or architectural views co-exist within an
organization. These architectures need to be understood by different stakeholders, each at their own
level. The connections and dependencies that exist among these different views make life even more
difficult. Management and control of these connected architectures is extremely complex.
GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY

   Compositionality

 The standard approach to dealing with the complexity of systems is to
    use a compositional approach, which distinguishes between parts of
    a system, and the relations between these parts.

 To understand how a car functions, we first describe the parts of the
    car such as the engine, the wheels and the air conditioning system,
    and then we describe the relationship among these parts.

 Likewise, we understand the information system of a company as a
    set of systems and their relations, and we understand a company as
    a set of business processes and their relations.
GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY


   Integration of Architectural Domains

o   Example 1: As a first example of an integration problem, consider Fig. 3.1, which contains several
    architectures. The five architectures may be models expressed in UML, or models from cells of Zachman’s
    architectural framework, or any kind of combination. For instance, there may be a company that has
    modelled its applications in UML and its business processes in BPMN.

o   In all these cases, it is unclear how concepts in one view are related to concepts in another view.

o   Moreover, it is unclear whether views are compatible with each other.
 GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY


 Integration of Architectural Domains


This is often called a problem of alignment,
and the UML–BPMN example is called a
business–IT alignment problem.
GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY



   Integration of Architectural Domains

o   Example 2: As a second example of an integration problem, consider the first two viewpoints of the IEEE
    1471 standard (IEEE Computer Society 2000): the structural viewpoint and the behavioral viewpoint.

o   How are structure and behavior related?

o   One instance of this problem is how structural concepts like software components are related to behavioral
    concepts like application functions.
GETTING TO GRIPS WITH ARCHITECTURAL COMPLEXITY


     Discussion
     According to the below paper describe how different enterprise
     architecture domains can be integrated?


        Antunes, G., Caetano, A., Bakhshandeh, M., Mayer, R., & Borbinha, J. (2013,
         June). Using ontologies to integrate multiple enterprise architecture domains.
         In International Conference on Business Information Systems (pp. 61-72).
         Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg.
DESCRIBING ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES


 Describing Enterprise Architectures

We concentrate on what is essential for enterprise architecture, and therefore we limit ourselves to the
core elements of these domains and focus especially on the relations and interactions between them.
Precise definitions and constraints will help us to create insight into the complexity of the enterprise
architecture and to evade conflicts and inconsistencies between the different domains.
    DESCRIBING ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

   Observing the Universe

The viewer is a stakeholder of (part of) the organizational,
technical, or other systems that make up the enterprise, i.e.,
the universe that the viewer observes. The conception of
this universe then is the architecture of the enterprise.

The representation of this architecture is an architecture
description, which may contain models of the architecture,
but also, for example, textual descriptions. The underlying
relationships between stakeholder, enterprise, architecture
and architecture description can be expressed in the form of
a tetrahedron, as depicted in Fig. 3.2, which is based on the
FRISCO tetrahedron (Falkenberg et al. 1998).
DESCRIBING ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

 Observing Domains

   Domain: any subset of a conception (being a set of elements) of the universe that is conceived
    of as being some ‘part’ or ‘aspect’ of the universe.

   Model: a purposely abstracted and unambiguous conception of a domain.

   Modelling: the act of purposely abstracting a model from (what is conceived to be) a part of the
    universe.
DESCRIBING ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES


 Views and Viewpoints

   View: expresses the architecture of the system of interest from the perspective of one or more
     stakeholders to address specific concerns, using the conventions established by its viewpoint

   Viewpoint: a specification of the conventions for constructing, interpreting, using and analyzing
     one type of architecture view
DESCRIBING ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

   Ways of Working
 A way of thinking: articulates the assumptions about the kinds of problem domains, solutions, and modellers involved.

 A way of modelling: identifies the core concepts of the language that may be used to denote, analyse, visualise,
    and/or animate architecture descriptions.
 A way of communicating: describes how the abstract concepts from the way of modelling are communicated to
    human beings, e.g., in terms of a textual or a graphical notation (syntax, style, medium).
 A way of working: structures (parts of) the way in which a system is developed. It defines the possible tasks, including
    subtasks, and ordering of tasks, to be performed as part of the development process. It furthermore provides
    guidelines and suggestions (heuristics) on how these tasks should be performed.
 A way of supporting: the support that is offered by (possibly automated) tools for the handling (creating, presenting,
    modifying, etc.) of models and views. In general, a way of supporting is supplied in the form of some computerised tool.
 A way of using: identifies heuristics that:

    •   define situations, classes of stakeholders, and concerns for which a particular model or viewpoint is most suitable;
    •   provide guidance in tuning the viewpoint to specific situations, classes of stakeholders, and their concerns.
PICTURES, MODELS, AND SEMANTICS

   Symbolic      Models:       A    symbolic   model
    expresses properties of architectures of
    systems by means of symbols that refer to
    reality.

   Semantic Models: A semantic model is an
    interpretation   of     a       symbolic    model,
    expressing the meaning of the symbols in
    that model.
PICTURES, MODELS, AND SEMANTICS


   Symbolic Models:

Fig. 3.4 exhibits a structural description of the employees of a company. We need to recall that the above
is a syntactic structure; that is, a description of a symbolic model with a signature whose sorts are
Employee and Director, and with respective entities related by a relation named Responsible_for.
PICTURES, MODELS, AND SEMANTICS

   Symbolic Models:

For example, Fig. 3.5 extends the previous signature with an ‘is-a’ relationship between the sorts Director
and Employee (denoted by a UML inheritance relation), intuitively suggesting that every director is also an
employee. Moreover, the symbolic model may also contain a set of actions, and the signature a set of
action symbols.
PICTURES, MODELS, AND SEMANTICS


      Semantic Models: for a symbolic model, we will denote by x:T a variable
       x which ranges over individuals of sort T. For example, we could use the
       logical sentence

      ∃ x : Director. 8y : Employee. Responsible_ for(x, y)

      to constraint the interpretation of the sort Director to be a non-empty set.
       Note that since Director is_a Employee, also the interpretation of the latter
       sort will be non-empty.
PICTURES, MODELS, AND SEMANTICS


  Discussion

  According to the below paper describe how symbolic models can be
  integrated using an architectural language, how integrated models can
  be updated using the distinction between symbolic models and their
  visualization, and how semantic models can be integrated?


   Arbab, F., de Boer, F., Bonsangue, M., Lankhorst, M., Proper, E., & van
     der Torre, L. (2007). Integrating architectural models-symbolic, semantic
     and subjective models in enterprise architecture. Enterprise Modelling
     and Information Systems Architectures (EMISAJ), 2(1), 40-57.
REFERENCES


  Lankhorst, M. (2017). Enterprise architecture at work (ISBN 978-3-662-53933-
    0). Berlin: Springer.
  Antunes, G., Caetano, A., Bakhshandeh, M., Mayer, R., & Borbinha, J. (2013, June).
    Using ontologies to integrate multiple enterprise architecture domains. In
    International Conference on Business Information Systems (pp. 61-72). Springer,
    Berlin, Heidelberg.
  Antunes, G., Caetano, A., Bakhshandeh, M., Mayer, R., & Borbinha, J. (2013, June).
    Using ontologies to integrate multiple enterprise architecture domains. In
    International Conference on Business Information Systems (pp. 61-72). Springer,
    Berlin, Heidelberg.
