  ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE (EA) AND
  DATABASE PROGRAMMING




Azadeh Sarkheyli, Ph.D.
(azadeh.sarkheyli@hh.se)
             Course plan (Weeks 18-26)
             Introduction to Enterprise Architecture (EA)
CONTENTS:
             Project Proposal
COURSE PLAN
Learning Outcomes (LOs)
After completing the course, the student should be able to:
Knowledge and understanding
•   Explain the concepts of architectural strategy, system structuring and Enterprise Architecture (EA).
•   Describe principles for a service-oriented, component-based, and distributed architecture.
•   Describe relationships between different types of architecture within Enterprise Architecture (EA): business architecture, information
    architecture and IT architecture.
•   Demonstrate understanding of different roles in Enterprise Architecture (EA).
Skills and Abilities
•   Use general theory, methodology and technology for process and data modeling.
•   Analyze a business and based on the analysis, design a database architecture that corresponds to a business's needs, goals, and
    requirements.
•   Implement different database solutions to achieve optimal database performance.
•   Orally and in writing present problems and solutions in the area.
Evaluation
•   Assess whether different database solutions are reusable and optimized based on criteria for good database design.
•   Based on relevant articles, discuss, reflect, and argue for when a certain type of architecture may be suitable, and for which type of business.
COURSE
PLAN
COURSE PLAN

 Assessment
 ➢ Assessment 1: Attendance, cooperation, oral presentation in seminars, (30% of the
   overall grade)
 ➢ Assessment 2: Group project work with a written report and oral presentation,
   (30% of the overall grade)
 ➢ Assessment 3: Individual written test, (40% of the overall grade)
INTRODUCTION TO ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE
INTRODUCTION



                              What exactly does
                             ‘architecture’ mean?




                                                    What is the meaning of
                                                             EA ?
     How EA can be useful?
INTRODUCTION: CONCEPTS


 To manage the complexity of any large organization or system, you need architecture.

 For example, an architectural model of a house defines its major functions and how they
   are structured. It provides an abstract design, ignoring many details.

 Moreover, a similar frame of reference is needed in designing an enterprise. To create an
   overview of the structure of an organization, its business processes, their application
   support, and the technical infrastructure, you need to express the different aspects and
   domains, and their relations.

 Architecture can signify the art and science of designing the built environment, or the
   product of such a design. Thus, the term architecture can encompass both the blueprint
   for a building and the general underlying principles such as its style, as in ‘gothic
   architecture’.
INTRODUCTION: CONCEPTS




Architecture: fundamental concepts or properties of a system in its environment,
embodied in its elements, relationships, and in the principles of its design and evolution.
INTRODUCTION



   Discussion
    What is the meaning of stakeholder? (with example)
    Why should we consider it?


    What is the meaning of enterprise?
INTRODUCTION: HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE

Roger Sessions, Object Watch Inc (2007):
• Thirty years ago, a new field was born that soon came to be known as enterprise architecture. The field initially began to
address two problems:
   – System complexity—Organizations were spending more and more money building IT systems; and
   – Poor business alignment—Organizations were finding it more and more difficult to keep those increasingly
   expensive IT systems aligned with business need
• IT systems unmanageably complex and increasingly costly to maintain
• IT systems hindering the organization's ability to respond to current, and future, market conditions in a timely and cost-
effective manner
• Mission-critical information consistently out-of-date and/or just plain wrong
• A culture of distrust between the business and technology sides of the organization
INTRODUCTION: DEFINITIONS

 Enterprise: any collection of organizations that has a common set of goals and/or a single bottom line.
 Enterprise architecture: a coherent whole of principles, methods, and models that are used in the
   design and realization of an enterprise’s organizational structure, business processes, information
   systems, and infrastructure.
 … the organizing logic for business processes and IT infrastructure reflecting the integration and
   standardization requirements of the company's operating model … the desired state of business
   process integration and business process standardization for delivering goods and services to
   customers (Peter Weill, MIT Center for IS Research)
 … defines the mission of an agency and describes the technology and information needed to perform
   that mission, along with descriptions of how the architecture of the organization should be changed in
   order to respond to changes in the mission (United States Government)
 … the process of translating business vision and strategy into effective enterprise change by creating,
   communicating and improving the key requirements, principles and models that describe the
   enterprise's future state and enable its evolution (Gartner)
INTRODUCTION: ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE SCOPE
o   The term enterprise is generally applicable in many circumstances, including
       Public or private sector organizations
       An entire business or corporation
       A part of a larger enterprise (such as a business unit)
       A conglomerate of several organizations, such as a joint venture or partnership
       A multiply outsourced business operation
o   The term enterprise includes the whole complex, socio-technical system, including:
       people
       information
       technology
       business (e.g., operations)
o   Defining the boundary or scope of the enterprise to be described is an important first step in creating the enterprise
    architecture. “Enterprise” means more than the information systems employed by an organization.
o   Composing holistic solutions that address the business challenges of the enterprise and support the governance needed to
    implement them (Gartner).
INTRODUCTION: ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE EXAMPLE




            https://www.edrawsoft.com/enterprisearchitecture/enterprise-architecture-examples.html
INTRODUCTION: ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE EXAMPLE




            https://www.edrawsoft.com/enterprisearchitecture/enterprise-architecture-examples.html
INTRODUCTION



   Discussion
   According the below papers describe why do we need Enterprise
   Architecture?


   ❖ Shanks, G., Gloet, M., Someh, I. A., Frampton, K., & Tamm, T. (2018).
      Achieving benefits with enterprise architecture. The Journal of
      Strategic Information Systems, 27(2), 139-156.
   ❖ van de Wetering, R., Kurnia, S., & Kotusev, S. (2021). The role of
      enterprise architecture for digital transformations. Sustainability,
      13(4), 2237.
   ❖ Ross, J. W. (2006). Enterprise architecture: Driving business benefits
      from IT.
REFERENCES



  Lankhorst, M. (2017). Enterprise architecture at work (ISBN 978-3-662-53933-
    0). Berlin: Springer.
  https://loggle.io/blog/5-benefits-of-enterprise-architecture
  https://www.edrawsoft.com/enterprisearchitecture/enterprise-architecture-
    examples.html
PROJECT


    Form your group

     The students should form a group consisting of 4 or 5 members.
