  ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE (EA) AND
  DATABASE PROGRAMMING
  LECTURE 6




Azadeh Sarkheyli
(azadeh.sarkheyli@hh.se)
             Communication of Enterprise Architectures
CONTENTS:    A Language for Enterprise Modelling
COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

Describing architectures is all about communication. The role of an architecture description is, it always involves some communicative
aspect. Consider, as an illustration, the potential uses of architecture descriptions as identified in the IEEE 1471 standard (IEEE
Computer Society 2000):
       Expression of the system and its (potential) evolution.

       Analysis of alternative architectures.

       Business planning for transition from a legacy architecture to a new architecture.

       Communications among organizations involved in the development, production, fielding, operation, and maintenance of a system.

       Communications between acquirers and developers as a part of contract negotiations.

       Criteria for certifying conformance of implementations to the architecture.

       Development and maintenance documentation, including material for reuse repositories and training material.

       Input to subsequent system design and development activities.

       Input to system generation and analysis tools.

       Operational and infrastructure support; configuration management and repair; redesign and maintenance of systems, subsystems, and components.

       Planning and budget support.

       Preparation of acquisition documents (e.g., requests for proposal and statements of work).

       Review, analysis, and evaluation of the system across the life cycle.

       Specification for a group of systems sharing a common set of features, (e.g., product lines).
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES


System Development as a Knowledge Transformation Process
In essence, we regard system development as a knowledge transformation process whereby
conversations are used to share and create knowledge pertaining to both the system being developed,
as well as the development process itself. The notion of ‘conversation’ should be interpreted here in the
broadest sense, ranging from a single person producing an (architectural) description, via a one-on-one
design or elicitation session, to a workshop with several stakeholders, and even the widespread
dissemination of definitive architectures.
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES


System Development as a Knowledge Transformation Process
 System development community: a group of objects, such as actors and representations, which are
  involved in the development of a system.

 Concern: an interest of a stakeholder with regards to the architecture description of some system,
  resulting from the stakeholder’s goals, and the present or future role(s) played by the system in
  relation to these goals.
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

System Development as a Knowledge Transformation Process

Some examples of concerns are:

      The current situation with regards to the computerized support of a business process.

      The requirements of a specific stakeholder with regards to the desired situation.

      The improvements, which a new system may bring, to a pre-existing situation in relation to the costs of acquiring the
       system.

      The potential impact of a new system on the activities of a prospective user.

      The potential impact of a new system on the work of the system administrators that are to maintain the new system.
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES


System Development as a Knowledge Transformation Process
Once the knowledge has been introduced into a community, it can be shared among members of that
community. Sharing knowledge between different actors may progress through a number of stages. We
distinguish three major stages:

      Aware: An actor may become aware of (possible) knowledge by way of the sharing by another actor.

      Agreed: Once knowledge is shared, an actor can make up his or her own mind about it and decide whether or not to
       agree to the knowledge shared.

      Committed: Actors who agree to a specific knowledge topic may decide actually to commit to this knowledge. In
       other words, they may decide to adapt their future behavior in accordance with this knowledge.
    COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

Conversation Strategies
Conversations take place in some situation that may limit the execution of the conversation. We may characterize such a situation further in
terms of situational factors:

   Availability of resources: Refers to the availability of resources that can be used in a conversation. The availability of resources can be
    refined to more specific factors such as time for execution, actors, intellectual capacities needed from the actors, or financial means.

   Complexity: The resources needed for the conversation, the knowledge being conversed about, etc., will exhibit a certain level of
    complexity. This complexity also influences the conversation strategy to be followed. Examples of such complexity factors, are the
    heterogeneity of the actors involved, the quantity of actors, complexity of the technology used, the complexity of the knowledge being
    conversed about, and the size of the gap between the initial knowledge state and the desired knowledge state.

   Uncertainty: If you want to determine a conversation strategy fit for a given situation, you have to make assumptions about the knowledge
    goal.
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

Conversation Strategies

According to Fig. 4.2. Given a knowledge goal, an initial state, and conversation situation, a conversation strategy can be
determined, which should lead us from the initial state to the knowledge state as desired by the knowledge goal, taking into
account the conversation situation at hand.
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES


Architectural Conversations

We can identify the following classes of knowledge goals that you may want to achieve in a conversation:

      Introduction of knowledge: This refers to situations where there is a need to introduce into or create new knowledge in a (part of a)
       development community. These kinds of knowledge goals typically lead to training or awareness sessions.

      Agreement to knowledge: With this class of knowledge goals, we refer to situations in which the mutual agreement of different
       stakeholders (with their own specific stakes and concerns!) needs to be improved or validated.

      Commitment to knowledge: In these cases, the knowledge goal goes beyond that of achieving agreement. Stakeholders should be
       willing to act upon the knowledge they agree to.
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

Architectural Conversations: Conversation Techniques

     Brown-paper session: Structured brainstorm-like group session (up to about 15 people) in which items (keywords or
      short phrases) are elicited from the individuals in the group in answer to a question such as: ‘What are the key
      functionality issues in our current IT architecture?’. The items are then collected on a sheet of paper and, by means
      of an open and creative group process, structured and categorized. This may involve adding, deleting, merging, or
      changing items.

     Elicitation interview: An interview where an analyst puts informative questions to the informants. The aim is to gather
      knowledge from the informants. Interviews can be more or less ‘open’: they can be strictly focused or guided, but the
      conversation can also be left open to go where the interest of the interviewer or informants leads it.

     Workshop: Involves one to, say, 15 people, working on a model or view interactively, mediated by an architect or
      analyst. This class also encompasses so-called joint modelling sessions.
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES

Architectural Conversations: Conversation Techniques

      Validation interview: An interview where an analyst will aim to find out if the view or model matches the views and
       expectations of an informant. This could be a view or model that has been communicated to the informants beforehand, or
       during the interview. A validation interview will typically be much more ‘closed’ than an elicitation interview: there will have to
       be some systematic approach by which validity of the view or model is checked.

      Committing review: A group of stakeholders are presented with a number of alternative models or views and their impact.
       They are requested to select one alternative and commit to this alternative based on their insights into the potential impact.
       This typically involves a formal decision-making processes.

      Presentation: Involves one to three people presenting a model or view to a group of, say, up to a hundred people. One may
       decide to elicit feedback, but this is usually gathered afterwards, in a more personal way, or at least 1:1 (e.g. through a round
       of feedback).

      Mailing: A form of ‘mass’ communication, where a model or view is presented or handed over to a large number of people.
       Feedback may or may not be encouraged.
 COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES
Architectural Conversations




                                             A + indicates that a certain conversation
                                             class is well suited for the selected
                                             technique of knowledge goals, while ++
                                             indicates that it is particularly well suited.
                                             On the other hand, a -- indicates that a
                                             certain conversation technique is ill-suited
                                             for the selected class of knowledge goals
COMMUNICATION OF ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURES


     Discussion

     According to the below paper choose four identified theories related to
     the key elements of an EA practice which more focus on communication
     and try to describe them?


        Kotusev, S., & Kurnia, S. (2021). The theoretical basis of enterprise
         architecture: A critical review and taxonomy of relevant theories. Journal of
         Information Technology, 36(3), 275-315.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING

Architecture provides a means to handle the complexity of modern information intensive enterprises. To this
end, architects need ways to express architectures as clearly as possible: both for their own understanding
and for communication with other stakeholders, such as system developers, end users, and managers.
However,…

 the current situation is that architects in different domains, even within the same organization, often use
   their own description techniques and conventions.

 there is no standard language for describing enterprise architectures in a precise way across domain
   borders.

 they are often described either in informal pictures that lack a well-defined meaning, or in detailed design
   languages (such as UML) that are difficult to understand for non-experts.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING



In   Fig.    5.1,   the    role   that   the
enterprise     architecture       modelling
language plays in our approach is
summarized. It provides a means for
integration, by allowing the creation
of   models     that      show    high-level
structures within domains and the
relations between domains.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


Three main layers:
1. The business layer offers products and services to external
   customers, which are realized in the organization by business
   processes (performed by business actors or roles).
2. The application layer supports the business layer with application
   services which are realized by (software) application components.
3. The technology layer offers infrastructural services (e.g., processing,
   storage, and communication services) needed to run applications,
   realized by computer and communication devices and system
   software.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


A premise of the ArchiMate language is that
the general structure of models within the
different layers is similar. The same types of
concepts and relations are used, although
their exact nature and granularity differ. As a
result of this uniformity, models created for the
different layers can quite easily be aligned with
each other. To identify the concepts that make
up this general structure, we start from the
three dimensions shown in Fig. 5.3.
 A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING




The core concepts that are found
in each layer of the language are
depicted in Fig. 5.4.
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING

The structure of the language
and the most important
concepts are summarized in
Fig. 5.5.
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING

A full overview of the language
meta-model can be found in
the official specification
document (The Open Group
2016a) and the notation is
given in Appendix A
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING

An example of a motivation
model is shown in Fig. 5.6. The
example illustrates the use of
the central concepts and
relations.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING

                            Motivation Concepts
                             Stakeholder: the role of an individual, team or
                               organization (or classes thereof) that
                               represents their interest in the outcome of the
                               architecture.
                             Driver: an external or internal condition that
                               motivates an organization to define its goals
                               and implement the changes necessary to
                               achieve them.
                             Assessment: the result of an analysis of the
                               state of affairs of the enterprise with respect to
                               some driver.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING

                            Motivation Concepts
                               Goal: a high-level statement of intent, direction or
                                desired end state for an organisation and its
                                stakeholders.
                               Requirement: a statement of need that must be met by
                                the architecture.
                               Constraint: a factor that prevents or obstructs the
                                realisation of goals.
                               Principle: a qualitative statement of intent that should be
                                met by the architecture.
                               Outcome: an end result that has been achieved.
                               Value: the relative worth, utility or importance of a core
                                element or an outcome.
                               Meaning: the knowledge or expertise present in a
                                business object or its representation, given a particular
                                context.
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING
A course of action represents what
an enterprise has decided to do to
realize its goals. It can be used to
model a high-level strategic plan or
direction, or more concrete lower-
level tactics. Courses of action are
typically realized by capabilities and
resources, as shown in Fig. 5.7.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING

                   Business Structure Concepts
                        Business actor: a business entity that is capable of performing
                         behaviour.
                        Business role: the responsibility for performing specific behaviour, to
                         which an actor can be assigned, or the part an actor plays in a
                         particular action or event.
                        Business collaboration: an aggregate of two or more business internal
                         active structure elements that work together to perform collective
                         behaviour.
                        Business interface: a point of access where a business service is
                         made available to the environment.
                        Business object: a concept used within a particular business domain.
                        Representation: the perceptible form of the information carried by a
                         business object.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING

                            Strategy Concepts
                             Course of action: an approach or plan for
                               configuring some capabilities and resources of
                               the enterprise, undertaken to achieve a goal.
                             Capability: an ability that an active structure
                               element, such as an organization, person or
                               system, possesses.
                             Resource: an asset owned or controlled by an
                               individual or organisation.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


Business Layer Concepts
     Business Structure Concepts
     Business Behaviour Concepts
     Higher-Level Business Concepts
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING
An example of a business layer
model is shown in Fig. 5.9,
illustrating the use of the central
concepts and relations. In the
following subsections, we will
explain the business layer concepts
in more detail.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING

Business Behavior Concepts
     Business service: an explicitly defined exposed business behaviour.
     Business process: a sequence of business behaviours that achieves a specific outcome such as a defined set of
      products and services.
     Business function: a collection of business behaviour based on a chosen set of criteria (typically required
      business resources and/or competences), closely aligned to an organisation, but not necessarily explicitly
      governed by the organisation.
     Business interaction: a unit of collective business behaviour performed by (a collaboration of) two or more
      business roles.
     Business event: a business behaviour element that denotes an organizational state change. It may originate from
      and be resolved inside or outside the organisation.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


Higher-Level Business Concepts
     Product: a coherent collection of services and/or passive structure elements, accompanied by a contract/set of
      agreements, which is offered as a whole to (internal or external) customers.
     Contract: a formal or informal specification of an agreement between a provider and a consumer that specifies
      the rights and obligations associated with a product and establishes functional and non-functional parameters for
      interaction.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING



Application Layer Concepts
     Application Structure Concepts
     Application Behavior Concepts
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING

A typical example of an
application layer model is
shown in Fig. 5.15, illustrating
the use of the central concepts.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING

Application Structure Concepts
     Application component: an encapsulation of application functionality aligned to implementation structure, which is
      modular and replaceable. It encapsulates its behaviour and data, exposes services and makes them available
      through interfaces.
     Application collaboration: an aggregate of two or more application components that work together to perform
      collective application behaviour.
     Application interface: a point of access where an application service is made available to a user, another
      application component or a node.
     Data object: data structured for automated processing.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


Application Behaviour Concepts
     Application service: an explicitly defined exposed application behaviour.
     Application function: automated behaviour that can be performed by an application component.
     Application process: a sequence of application behaviours that achieves a specific outcome.
     Application interaction: a unit of collective application behaviour performed by (a collaboration of) two or more
      application components.
     Application event: an application behaviour element that denotes a state change.
  A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


The application layer
and the business layer
can be easily linked in
ArchiMate (Fig. 5.16).
Two types of relations
provide this link:
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING



Technology Layer Concepts
     Technology Structure Concepts
     Technology Behavior Concepts
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING

A typical example of a
technology layer model is
shown in Fig. 5.17, illustrating
the use of the central concepts.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING
Technology Structure Concepts
     Node: a computational or physical resource that hosts, manipulates or interacts with other computational or
      physical resources.
     Technology collaboration: an aggregate of two or more nodes that work together to perform collective technology
      behaviour.
     Technology interface: a point of access where technology services offered by a node can be accessed.
     Device: a physical IT resource upon which system software and artefacts may be deployed for execution.
     System software: software that provides or contributes to an environment for storing, executing and using
      software or data deployed within it.
     Path: a link between two or more nodes, through which these nodes can exchange data or material.
     Communication network: a set of structures that connects computer systems or other electronic devices for
      transmission, routing and reception of data or data-based communications such as voice and video.
     Artefact: a piece of data that is used or produced in a software development process or by deployment and
      operation of a system.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


Technology Behaviour Concepts
     Technology service: externally visible unit of functionality, provided by one or more nodes, exposed through well-
      defined interfaces, and meaningful to the environment.
     Technology function: a behaviour element that groups infrastructural behaviour that can be performed by a node.
     Technology process: a sequence of technology behaviours that achieves a specific outcome.
     Technology interaction: a unit of collective technology behaviour performed by (a collaboration of) two or more
      nodes.
     Technology event: a technology behaviour element that denotes a state change.
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING
Application–Technology Alignment
The technology layer and the application
layer can also be linked very easily
Similar to business–application
alignment, two types of relations provide
this link:
1) Technology services can serve
   application functions and technology
   interface serve application
   components, i.e. there is a support
   relation between the technology and
   application layers (Fig. 5.18).
2) Artefacts can realize data objects and
   application components, i.e. there is a
   implementation relation between the
   technology and application layers
   (Fig. 5.18).
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING



Physical Concepts
     Equipment: one or more physical machines, tools or instruments that can create, use, store, move or transform
      materials.
     Facility: a physical structure or environment.
     Distribution network: a physical network used to transport materials or energy.
     Material: tangible physical matter or physical elements.
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING

Physical Concepts
Modelling the physical world and its
interplay with IT is therefore an
important addition to the language
in ArchiMate version 3.0 (The Open
Group 2016a). An example of these
concepts is shown in Fig. 5.19.
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING



Implementation and Migration Concepts
     Implementation-Related Concepts
     Migration Planning Concepts
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


Implementation-Related Concepts
     Work package: a series of actions identified and designed to achieve specific results within specified time and
      resource constraints.
     Implementation event: a behaviour element that denotes a state change related to implementation or migration.
     Deliverable: a precisely defined outcome of a work package.
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING

Implementation-Related
Concepts
An example of a model using the
implementation-related concepts is
shown in Fig. 5.20, illustrating the
use of the central concepts and
relations for expressing the work
that needs to be done to realise an
architecture.
 A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING



Migration Planning Concepts
     Plateau: a relatively stable state of the
      architecture that exists during a limited period
      of time.
     Gap: a statement of difference between two
      plateaus.
A LANGUAGE
FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING
RELATIONS
A LANGUAGE FOR
ENTERPRISE
MODELLING

Guidelines for Modelling
A LANGUAGE FOR ENTERPRISE MODELLING


     Discussion

     According to the below paper describe how the Business Model
     Canvas can mapped to ArchiMate?


        Meertens, L. O., Iacob, M. E., Nieuwenhuis, L. J., van Sinderen, M. J.,
         Jonkers, H., & Quartel, D. (2012, March). Mapping the business model canvas
         to ArchiMate. In Proceedings of the 27th annual ACM symposium on applied
         computing (pp. 1694-1701).
REFERENCES


  Lankhorst, M. (2017). Enterprise architecture at work (ISBN 978-3-662-53933-
    0). Berlin: Springer.
  Kotusev, S., & Kurnia, S. (2021). The theoretical basis of enterprise architecture: A
    critical review and taxonomy of relevant theories. Journal of Information
    Technology, 36(3), 275-315.
  Meertens, L. O., Iacob, M. E., Nieuwenhuis, L. J., van Sinderen, M. J., Jonkers, H., &
    Quartel, D. (2012, March). Mapping the business model canvas to ArchiMate. In
    Proceedings of the 27th annual ACM symposium on applied computing (pp.
    1694-1701).
