Enterprise Architecture and Database Programming                          Azadeh Sarkheyli



                                             Seminar 3


Write a report based on the EFQM Excellence Model that includes:
  I.   Title (name of a business)
 II.   Names of the members, Group name
III.   According to EFQM as a quality management approach, try to answer the following questions
       regarding the nine criteria for excellence, five of which are ‘enablers’, covering what an
       organization does, and four are ‘results’, covering what that organization achieves.




Leadership:
   1. What is Leadership? (e.g., who are Leaders? what do Leaders do?)
   2. How do you put Leadership into Practice? (e.g., establish a vision and mission,
       communication)
   3. How do you review and improve your leadership? (e.g., reviewing techniques)

People
   1. Why People? (e.g., who are your people? what do people mean to your organization?)
   2. How do you manage, develop and involve the People in your organization? (e.g., plan,
       manage and improve your people resources, develop your people’s knowledge and
       competencies, involve and empower your people, communicate with your people, Reward,
       recognize and care for your people)
   3. How do you review and improve your people management? (e.g., reviewing techniques)

Policy & Strategy
    1. How do you know who your Stakeholders are and their expectations of your organization?
    2. What information, from what sources, do you use to help inform your future direction?
    3. How do you develop, review, and update your plans for the future?
    4. How are your plans for the future communicated and implemented?

Partnerships & Resources
  1. What do we mean by Partnerships?
  2. How do I decide who could be a good Partner for me?
  3. What about my current suppliers, where do they fit?
  4. What are the benefits of adopting a Partnership approach?
  5. What do we mean by Resources?
  6. How do you manage your finances to support your plans in the future?
  7. How do you manage your buildings, equipment and material in support of your plans?
Enterprise Architecture and Database Programming (IK2015)


   8.   How do you manage technology to help improve your current performance and your plans for
        the future?
   9.   What do we mean by Information & Knowledge?

Processes
   1. What do we mean by Processes?
   2. How do I identify my Key Processes?
   3. How do you Manage and Review your Processes?

Customer Results
   1. Why are Customer Results Important? (e.g., Definition of a Customer, Definition of a
      Customer Result, Beyond Customer Satisfaction)
   2. What are you Measuring and Reporting? (e.g, Perception Measures, Performance indicators,
      Benchmark Data)
   3. How are you Presenting and Communicating the Results? (e.g., Use of Graphics)

People Results
   1. Why are People Results important?
   2. How do you Measure and Report People Results? (e.g., Choosing the right measures,
       Perception Measures, and Performance Measures)
   3. Communicating and Acting on your People Results? (e.g., Communication strategies)

Society Results
   1. Why are Society Results Important?
   2. How are you Communicating the Results? (e.g., Communication Strategies)

Key Performance Results
   1. What do we mean by Key Performance Result?
   2. What are the Range of Results (Scope and Segmentation)?
   3. How do you Measure and Report? (e.g., Data Collecting, Reporting and Communicating)
   4. How do you Build a Culture of Measurement and Results?
   5. How do you improve the results? (e.g., Training for Measurement, and Improvement)




For more information see the below links:

    Slides of Lecture 3
    https://slideplayer.com/slide/14291904/
    http://www.cicad.oas.org/reduccion_demanda/eulac/forum_exchanges/tucuman/Documents/E
     FQM_3.pdf
