    Enterprise Architecture and Database Programming                       Azadeh Sarkheyli



                                                 Seminar 7

In this seminar, a report based on the previous six seminars (seminar 1 to seminar 6) for your case study,
including the sections listed below, should be presented by all group members in 10 to 15 minutes.

       I.   Title (name of a business)
      II.   Names of the members, Group number
     III.   Background of a selected business (includes a description of the products, services, mission,
            and vision)
     IV.    Business analysis based on the various perspectives (like Strategic Management as one of the
            management areas relevant to enterprise architecture)
            a. Stakeholders (key partners)
            b. Customers (types, relationships, channels)
            c. Financial (the way the organization makes/spends money)
            d. Internal business process (main actions)
            e. Learning and growth (the corporate and individual ability to change and improve)

     V.     According to BSC (Balanced Scorecard) as a management system, create a table that helps an
            enterprise to clarify and implement its vision and strategy. Moreover, for each of the four
            perspectives of BSC, a three-layered structure should be proposed:
            • mission (e.g., to become the customers’ preferred supplier)
            • objectives (e.g., to provide the customers with new products)
            • measures (e.g., percentage of turnover generated by new products)

     VI.    A Business Model Canvas for your case study

    VII.    According to EFQM as a quality management approach, answer the following questions
            regarding the nine criteria for excellence.
            Leadership:
                  1. What is Leadership? (e.g., who are Leaders? what do Leaders do?)
                  2. How do you put Leadership into Practice? (e.g., establish a vision and mission,
                  communication)
                  3. How do you review and improve your leadership? (e.g., reviewing techniques)
            People
                  1. Why People? (e.g., who are your people? what do people mean to your organization?
                  2. How do you manage, develop and involve the People in your organization? (e.g.,
                  plan, manage and improve your people resources, develop your people’s knowledge
                  and competencies, involve and empower your people, communicate with your people,
                  Reward, recognize and care for your people)
                  3. How do you review and improve your people management? (e.g., reviewing
                  techniques)
            Policy & Strategy
                  1. How do you know who your Stakeholders are and their expectations of your
                  organization?
                  2. What information, from what sources, do you use to help inform your future
                  direction?
                  3. How do you develop, review, and update your plans for the future?
                  4. How are your plans for the future communicated and implemented?
Enterprise Architecture and Database Programming (IK2015)


        Partnerships & Resources
               1. What do we mean by Partnerships?
               2. How do I decide who could be a good Partner for me?
               3. What about my current suppliers, where do they fit?
               4. What are the benefits of adopting a Partnership approach?
               5. What do we mean by Resources?
               6. How do you manage your finances to support your plans in the future?
               7. How do you manage your buildings, equipment and material in support of your
               plans?
               8. How do you manage technology to help improve your current performance and your
               plans for the future?
               9. What do we mean by Information & Knowledge?
        Processes
               1. What do we mean by Processes?
               2. How do I identify my Key Processes?
               3. How do you Manage and Review your Processes?
        Customer Results
               1. Why are Customer Results Important? (e.g., Definition of a Customer, Definition of
               a Customer Result, Beyond Customer Satisfaction)
               2. What are you Measuring and Reporting? (e.g, Perception Measures, Performance
               indicators, Benchmark Data)
               3. How are you Presenting and Communicating the Results? (e.g., Use of Graphics)
        People Results
               1. Why are People Results important?
               2. How do you Measure and Report People Results? (e.g., Choosing the right measures,
               Perception Measures, and Performance Measures)
               3. Communicating and Acting on your People Results? (e.g., Communication
               strategies)
        Society Results
               1. Why are Society Results Important?
               2. How are you Communicating the Results? (e.g., Communication Strategies)
        Key Performance Results
               1. What do we mean by Key Performance Result?
               2. What are the Range of Results (Scope and Segmentation)?
               3. How do you Measure and Report? (e.g., Data Collecting, Reporting and
               Communicating)
               4. How do you Build a Culture of Measurement and Results?
               5. How do you improve the results? (e.g., Training for Measurement, and Improvement)
VIII.   A conceptual model
 IX.    The first row of the Zachman framework
  X.    Relational data model
 XI.    A business layer model (that is mandatory), an application layer model, and a technology layer
        model (that are optional)
XII.    References
